Hi, I'm Shawn Schaefer on behalf of Expert
Village and today, we're going to learn the
basics in rock drumming. I like to call it,
"Rock Drumming 101 - The Basics". So, now
that we know how to play a basic quarter note
drum beat - one, two, three and four - we're
going to move on to what are called, "eighth"
notes. Like quarter notes, there is four in
one bar. You have this one bar. Well, let's
take that same one bar, and let's play eighth
notes, for an example. Well, eighth notes,
there's eight in a bar, right? But you don't
count them one, two, three, four, five, six,
seven, eight. Basically, each quarter note,
the four quarter notes - one, two and three,
four - they get a second note, if you will,
or a second eighth note. And you count it
like this: one and two and three and four
and... okay?. So, the quarter note beat, to
count one bar would be one, two, three, four.
Eighth notes would be counted as one and two
and three and four and. So you still have
your four quarter notes, one, two, three and
four. But each quarter note consists of two
eighth notes: one and, two and, three and,
four and. Now it's important to note, we were
talking about a puzzle earlier, that an eighth
note - the "and" if you will, like say, "one
and" - the "and" of "one" is exactly in between
beat one and beat two. So, if you have one
- well, let me do it this way - one and two,
right, "and" would be exactly in the center.
So you would have one and two. Right? One
and two. It's exactly in the middle, or symmetrical.
So let's practice counting bars of eighth
notes, or measures of eighth notes. It would
go like this: one and two and three and four
and one and two and three and four and one
and two and three and four and. Keep practicing
counting those eighth notes. Like I said,
practice makes perfect, and that's going to
be instrumental in what we're going to be
doing next. As a drummer, you always have
to count, and this is just an extension of
counting quarter notes. We're learning how
to count eighth notes. This is very important.
So keep practicing, and let's see what we've
got next.